>> Steve Kinney: What we need to next
is figure out this applyMiddleware,
which is one that you will not
find yourself using very often,
except for when you bring in
Middleware and you wish to apply it.
And again, it's really just a take
on compose, which is, it will allow
you to kind of go in and, like,
build intermediary steps in this process.
Because right now, you have
the dispatch is going to the store,
this whole process is going along.
There could be situations where we
would like to step in the middle and
do something.
Because I'm not very creative, we're gonna
start with the worlds simplest example,
which is, we'd like to log more
things to the console, right?
What's a few more console I was gonna do?
So let's create a function called logger.
>> Steve Kinney: And it's gonna get
an object that has dispatch and
the get state on it.
We just want the get state in this case,
cuz that's what we're gonna log.
And so this function,
you gotta put an equal sign here.
This function is gonna go ahead and
it's gonna return another function.
That's gonna take the next thing that's
gonna happen in the chain, right?
Cuz you can chain together Middleware.
So it's gonna take whatever the next
middleware that's registered is.
And then we'll get the action.
>> Steve Kinney: So it's like, current
function on top of curried function.
Unless you're writing middle,
if this stresses you out, unless you're
writing your own custom middleware,
it's not something you need
to know in order to react.
It's something you need to know if
you want to write custom middleware.
So we have, at this point when
we get inside the function
we're definitely gonna have
the current state of the store.
We will definitely have the action.
And we'll have whatever's next.
Your only responsibility inside of
this middleware is to pass the action
to the next piece of middleware.
So theoretically,
you have done your job if this is
the entire piece of your middleware.
I've serious questions about what job you
set out to do, if this is your middleware.
Because all you are doing
is taking the action,
taking the next piece of middleware and
giving the action to the next
piece of middleware.
I guess you are being a good citizen but
that's really about it.
So what we could also do is we
could console log, middleware.
And we'll do the getState and the action.
>> Steve Kinney: Very cool.
And I can do stuff below, as well, right?
If I want to find stuff
that happens later, but
we're gonna just keep it really simple for
now, and
I'm just gonna break this on some lines so
that everything's a little bit clearer.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, very cool.
So this is my very awesome middleware and
I think that'll be good.
We can hold onto this as well.
This will actually return something
we can take a look at in a second.
Let's actually do that.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll console,log
this value and it'll just return it.
All right, so we have this,
we have middleware,
creating a piece of middleware
is not necessarily enough.
The last thing that you need to do is
obviously is, the whole reason that got us
on this middleware journey is we
need to apply to the middleware.
The middleware must be applied, all right.
So,
>> Steve Kinney: Let's
go ahead,
>> Steve Kinney: And grab this.
Turns out create store.
Where's my create store?
Let's get rid of it, so
we can create a new one.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's start bring it
down, so I have everything in scope.
Crystal actually takes three arguments.
It takes the var reducer,
unless you cheated and
combined reducers to make one reducer.
So the reducer it takes the second
argument is an initial state of the world.
We did that with our individual reducers,
but you could also say like, her.
Here is the entire state tree that
I would like you to start out with.
So we'll just go ahead and
give that an empty object for now.
And then the last thing is
the ability to apply middlewares.
>> Steve Kinney: And
I'll put in our logger.
And applyMiddleware can actually
take multiple arguments
of middleware that it will apply
using compose and we're full circle.
>> Steve Kinney: I'm gonna
bring up the logger.
My only worry here, cuz I'm writing
everything in one file that I'm gonna have
stuff like in a wrong order.
>> Steve Kinney: But I got to watch a live
code debug order in the giant file.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> Steve Kinney: So, we've got our store.
We'll say add(5).
>> Steve Kinney: We get
that object back out.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's bring some stuff
down, otherwise we'll take a quick
technical break,
as I debug my middleware real quick.
>> Steve Kinney: We've also got
the logger, got all this stuff going on.
Let's check out the store.getState.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool.
Lets take a few minutes to quickly debug
this and then we will come right back.
So we did resolve the error, which is
exactly what I warned myself about,
which is originally I had tried
to use the error message reducer.
In the createStore above
where I had defined it.
So it wasn't defined,
which broke the world.
So we can see here, that we are logging
all sorts of stuff to the console
about the action that it received.
What we did in the reducer,
the whole subscription that happened.
We've seen a whole bunch of stuff.
Now logger, you will probably
not write a logger middleware.
Chances are like other then if you're
trying to demonstrate applyMiddleware to
a group of people,
like you might not necessarily need
to write any middleware, right?
You might need to use middleware.
You will actually see two different
middlewares that we'll use today.
And that's what we'll use applyMiddleware
to take somebody else's middleware
and apply it.
So if like, a function that took a next
function and then returned a function that
took an action that then did
stuff with the next function and
the action made you like
your palms a little sweaty.
Don't worry, like, likely unless
you where writing middleware,
that is not something you
are gonna need to do, but
like now at least you know what is
happening under the hood if you need to.
So, here's the thing, Redux is functions
and actions, effectively, right?
And a really great part about that is you
know it's easy to test, functions and
actions.
Right, there is nothing in
some weird closure scope.
There is nothing encapsulated
inside of a component.
There are,
you give an object to a function and
you see what came out the other end.
You wanna test the reducer?
Okay, that's a function,
it takes into objects.
Take the function,
passing the two objects,
see if you got what you wanted to get.
It's very easy to test our redux code.
And on that theme,
we're going to play with some Redux test.